Okay.
So with our app now completely in TypeScript, I think it's a good time to relaunch our view server
and verify that everything is still working within our browser.
So here I am on the job results page.
This is the most important page of the app and I'm just going to do a quick refresh to make sure everything
loads correctly and looks like everything is working out pretty well.
If I sign in here, it looks like that interactivity is working.
We have our number of jobs matched here.
For example, in the organization section I can select a sample organization like YouTube.
These jobs do update this number updates as well.
I can also filter for example, by job types.
Everything is looking like it's working pretty well as I select and then deselect all of these different
jobs.
So everything is looking good.
And now congratulations.
Our entire app is in TypeScript.
What you can say is the most modern language now being used on the front end because TypeScript is kind
of taking over everything and now we know how to work with it in both view X as well as our actual view
components.
So with that, let's transition to the slide deck and we'll talk about everything we learned in this
section.
Okay.
So let's recap everything we learned.
In this section, we focused on adding TypeScript to our actual view components themselves, and in
order to do that, we must follow two steps.
The first step is we must add a lang attribute to the script tag, and we must set its value to the
value.
T, s and T as of course is short for TypeScript.
And as soon as you do that, Vue and your code editor will realize that that script section consists
of TypeScript code.
The second thing we need to do for better type checking is we need to import the defined component function
from view and we invoke it and we pass it.
The component configuration object that we typically have in our script section make the functions return
value.
And by that I mean the defined component functions return value, the default export of the script section.
So basically all we need to do is take our former object, wrap it in a defined component function call
and make that the final export default value of that script section in your in your component found.
All right TypeScript will do its best to infer the correct types, and it will work for both Options
API and component API.
But it's capable of making mistakes.
It's not perfect.
So if it makes a mistake, simply give it an explicit type annotation.
And as I mentioned in the previous slide, the good news is once you add that Lang attribute, you can
use any valid TypeScript code within that script section.
So if you want to define an interface, for example, to define the shape of an object or the shape
of a return value from a composable function, you totally can, right?
So you treat that as a regular typescript file.
That is what happens between the opening script tag and the closing script tag and use whatever you
need it to be able to provide TypeScript more clarity.
You don't necessarily need to do everything in the configuration object.
You can declare, for example, an object type above as an interface just to make that section a little
bit easier to read.
All right.
When it comes to testing, we saw a big problem, which is the use of the just mock method and the fact
that TypeScript did not understand that we were replacing the default imported functions with just mock
functions instead.
That's what just mock does for us.
But TypeScript has no way of knowing how that library works.
But that's not a problem, because in that case we can simply use that as keyword to tell TypeScript
to treat an object as having a different type.
More specifically, we tell it to have the type just mock again.
That doesn't create a new object or a new copy.
Rather, what it does is create a new interpretation of an existing object.
TypeScript now understands that it has a different type and thus it can verify that when we call methods
like mock return value and now realizes that mock return value is a valid method on something like a
mock function object or of an object having a type of just that mock.
And thus it's not going to complain.
All right.
So we simply declare a contest.
We declare a new name for our mock, and then we take our existing import and then use the ASCII word
to cast it as being of type.
Just mock.
All right.
We also saw the benefits of exploring the types for functions and classes from other libraries.
For example, we discovered that the Axios get method accepts a generic type argument and that type,
that shape represents the object type of the eventual API response.
In that scenario, TypeScript is not going to make an API request for you when we're using the Axios
get method.
So we do have to provide that clarity because in that situation it has no clue what to expect.
But every time we add more specific types, we give more details to TypeScript so that it can infer
better.
So for example, if we tell TypeScript in this function, are you using Axios that get and get is going
to get an object of the shape.
If we return that data as the final return value of that function, then whenever we use that function
that relies on actions that get TypeScript will understand that that return value will be of the exact
same shape as we specified to the generic type.
And then it can verify in a totally separate, different file that the properties we access are correct,
that they exist, they are of the right type, that we are performing valid operations on them, etc.
So TypeScript will infer some things that's going to be incorrect.
And for other things, TypeScript simply will not infer because it has no way of knowing.
Right?
And in those situations we can be more clear and precise by providing more specific annotations.
There's still going to be parts that you miss.
It's it's a normal part of working with TypeScript, especially in code bases with a lot of files.
But as always, when you notice that something is missing like a generic type and you feel that you
as a developer can add something to make it more clear to TypeScript or to other developers what is
going on.
Clarity to me is the most number one priority.
So go ahead and add that additional annotation as needed.
All right.
We also saw that when we were using the use store composable function within a component that it wasn't
properly interpreting the type of our actual store state.
In order to enable that, we had to create a key and then we had to configure it in the file where we
connect the actual view app to view X.
That was our main test file and that's something we only have to do once.
That is the connecting to the app and also the creation of the key, however.
We also must pass that key into every indication of the use store composable function.
So wherever we are using use store, we simply import the key from the file in which it's defined and
then we pass that key as the first argument to use store.
We have to do that both in a component.
We also did it in some composable functions that relied on use store as well.
The good news is you only have to do it once.
Each time you use you store and then understand the type of that you store state and verify once again
that the properties are valid, that you're doing valid things with them, etc..
All right.
Speaking of composable, we talked a little bit about how to declare interfaces.
You're more than welcome to use the exact interfaces that a library like view or a view router or view
X will provide.
And many times that will be automatic from TypeScript inference.
But I also think it's okay to use simpler interfaces if it will make it easier to understand the code
and also easier to test.
Because remember, the more complex the interface, the more requirements you're putting on it, the
more that test has to live up to that interface.
And that may make your tests very closely connected to the official implementation or exact library
you're working with.
The more that you simplify things to kind of their bare essentials, for example, instead of a full
view reactive object, you describe it as having a type of a much simpler object with a value property
set to a string that is a much more lightweight type, that is more separate from the idea of view and
view X, which thus makes your code a little bit more separate and independent and thus more easily
changeable because it's not so dependent and coupled on x precisely using the idea of a view reactive
object compared to a much more simpler dependency like an object with a value property.
So feel free to use simpler interfaces.
There's no real perfect right answer.
Sometimes you need to use the real world thing.
Sometimes you can get away with a mock or a smaller, more lightweight object.
See what feels right to you and your team and just continue working on something that is again, easy
to read, easier to understand, easier to test as well, because all of those factors affect what makes
a good Vue code base.
All right.
So with that, there is that is all there is to cover in this lesson as well as the section.
So in the very next lesson, we're going to review a lot of these ideas by building a brand new feature
in TypeScript for our View app.
I'll see you there.